Are 14 again similar to the other one if you more resistors looks a little bit harder find the equivalent
resistance between points A and B do the exact same thing as what I previously did at the bottom here
is pretty simple this is for what else.
9 8 9 8 if you combine both of those you multiply them divided by the sum you'll also get four.
So that one's easy.
It's a bottom branch of the top branch.
I'm going to leave this 6 over here for now.
Now let's simplify all of these two.
So first of all this two and the four can be combined in series with each other so that 6 ohms.
And then you have a four and a six.
How do you combine both of those four and six.
Again remember what you have here you know for here you're going to have six.
How can I simplify both of those on both of those you can multiply them divided by the sum you multiply
them you get 24 divided by 10 that gives me 2.4.
All right.
So this whole thing this whole bit over here could be simplified into a 2.4 ohm equivalent resistor.
So you go back to my diagram over here.
So I have 2.4 something like this.
OK.
Now it's still on done but we're getting there.
So the bottom over here again these I can group together that's very easy.
That's an 8 ohm equivalent resistor and up here I have a six and a 2.4.
Well that's an eight point four ohm equivalent resistor.
So at the end we're left with an eight point four and an eight.
And those are in parallel with each other.
So the equivalent resistor of the entire thing I can multiply those and divide by the sum
at the end thing I got 4.1.
So that was pretty straightforward.
All right.
Now gets a little bit complicated because the numbers are not very kind.
So for this we're going to have to do it just numerically using the calculator.
OK.
So let's first find how much current is actually flowing into this first junction over here.
Right.
Because we've simplified this entire network so we can find how much current is out here in these branches.
Let's do that.
So again the current simply going to be the voltage which is 12 divided by point 4.1.
So that gave me 2.9 three.
So that was the current I flowing into the junction.
All right.
So is the junction.
Now what I'm going to do is I'm going to call the current one flowing upstairs and the current two flowing
downstairs like this.
So we have to have that 2.9 three must be equal to one plus two.
That's the junction rule.
We can call this equation 1.
Now the other thing we can do now is we can also write down either a loop rule or you can automatically
write it down that the voltage across the top branch has to be equal to the voltage across the bottom
range the voltage across the top branch is eight point four multiplied by one must be equal to the voltage
across the bottom branch because they are in parallel with each other.
So this is eight multiplied by two.
So while it's kind of simplify that using an equation one now equation one let's just call it equation
one prime becomes this 2.9 3.
That must be equal to.
Right.
This is one.
Now eliminate eye to high to simply be eight point four divided by eight multiplied by 1.
So at the end the value of Iowa and you get from this equation over here after substituting everything
in I think I got one point for three.
OK.
Now I go back to my Dzogchen rule equation 1 I know I was 1.4 3.
This here was 2.9 3.
Well you can automatically find what the current too is right.
Aitu should be approximately 1.5.
Now all of these are going to be within kind of one one hundredth three.
There might be some rounding error.
So be a little bit careful.
All right.
The next thing that's kind of easy is.
Well let's look at the bottom branch.
This is the bottom branch I found I just found that I too was going down here.
That means that the current through this guy has to be Aitu.
Now I two approaches this junction over here.
Now look what happens there's an 8 ohm resistance up here so it's going to be split.
Part of that curve is going to go up here.
Part of it's going to be going over in that direction.
Let's call this current i3.
This one must also be equal to i3 because the resistances are both 8 ohms and that's the only way that
the voltage is going to be the same.
So does that automatically tell us tells us that that current three must be exactly half so must be
0.75 because you have 1.5 coming in.
Point 7 5 is going to go up.
Point seven five is going to go down.
OK.
So we've solved everything over here.
Let's go back to the top.
So we had obtain i 1 is going here that means I won is flowing through that 6 ohm resistor.
And now what happens.
Well now it's me kind of draw on this one.
So you have I won going into that junction.
Now some of the currents going to go up here and some of the current is going to go through the six
ohm resistor or the two and the four if you want.
So let me call this I-5 Let's call this one here I 6 so we can write a junction rule here that says
that I one must be equal to I five plus six.
So we have an equation here for high five and six but we only have one.
So we need at least one other equation.
But the only thing you have to remember is that the voltage drop across across the forum resists there
must be equal to the voltage drop across the six ohm resistor because they are in parallel with each
other.
So again it's kind of similar to what we did before so the voltage drop across the forum resistor is
four times five and the voltage drop across the six ohm or which is an equivalent one but it's six times
six.
So that automatically means that I-5 has to be 1.5 times six.
You can go ahead and substitute that in here.
And then you're going to get one equation for I-5.
So at the end what you end up getting you could solve this.
You get one point for three has to be equal to five plus
know soil's do it the other way around.
I just realized what I did here.
I said I five was 1.5 times six so this is 1.5 6 Plus I 6.
Solve this for six.
I will give you approximately 0.5 7 amps.
Once you get I 6 is 5.7 5 7 amps.
We can then go back and automatically solve for what 5 is because you know its 1.5 times six.
This guy here gives you a 0.6.
All right so let's go back to the diagram.
That means so we had.
Remember let's go back to this original figure.
So I won the current I won.
Where was it 1.4 3.
Think about it you're going to have more current flowing through the top.
So I-5 is at zero point eighty six.
You have less current flowing through this bottom branch because there's more resistance.
The current flowing through that bottom branch here is 0.5 7 amps and kind of boxed this up here so
you can find the solution quickly.
But it's always using the same kind of steps.
OK.
Hopefully you kind of start seeing that now.
It's kind of simplified in terms of equivalent resistances at the beginning and applied junction rules
and then you end up getting all these kind of these parallel branches in most of these cases.
And for that you also have to write down that the voltage across each branch has to be the same.
So you end up ex-British having expressions like this one.
You end up having an expression like this one over here.
And then you can use that in our junction rules in order to simplify and solve for the unknowns.